Phase 3: Quest Page 14
The final sentence of the first paragraph in this section
should read: “Players have the opportunity to take
actions and play event cards at the beginning and
ending of each step.”
-----
Thalin CORE 6
When an enemy card is revealed from the encounter
deck, Thalin’s ability resolves before any keyword or
“When Revealed” card effects on the encounter card.
-----
Eleanor CORE 8
The replacement card is also revealed from the
encounter deck. Resolve any “When revealed” effects
and keywords on the new card following the standard
game rules.
-----
Beravor CORE 12
Should read: “Action: Exhaust Beravor to choose
a player. That player draws 2 cards. Limit once per
round.”
-----
Will of the West CORE 49
Should read: “Action: Choose a player. Shuffle that
player’s discard pile back into his deck. Remove Will
of the West from the game.”
-----
Stand and Fight CORE 51
Stand and Fight cannot return neutral allies from the
discard pile, as neutral cards do not belong to “any
sphere.”
-----
Feint CORE 34
Should read: “Combat Action: Choose an enemy
engaged with a player. That enemy cannot attack that
player this phase.”
-----
Thicket of Spears CORE 36
Should read: “Action: Choose a player. That player’s
engaged enemies cannot attack that player this phase.”
-----
Horn of Gondor CORE 42
Should read: “Response: After a character is destroyed,
add 1 resource to attached hero’s pool.”
-----
Wandering Took CORE 43
Should read: “(Limit once per round.)”
-----
Protector of Lorien CORE 70
Should read: “Action: Discard a card from your hand
to give attached hero +1 Ú or +1 Ò until the end of the
phase. Limit 3 times per phase.”
-----
Dol Guldur Beastmaster CORE 91
Should read: “Forced: When Dol Guldur Beastmaster
attacks...”
The additional shadow card is dealt when the Dol
Guldur Beastmaster is chosen during step 1 of enemy
attack resolution.
-----
Nazgûl of Dol Guldur CORE 102
Should have the text: “No attachments can be played
on Nazgûl of Dol Guldur.”
-----
The Necromancer’s Tower 1A CORE 123
Should read: “... reveal and place them in the staging
area.”
-----
Out of the Dungeons 3B CORE 125
If a facedown Orc Guard would be returned to the
staging area, it is instead placed in its owner’s discard
pile.
-----
Boromir SoM 95
Should read: “Raise your threat by 1 to ready Boromir.
(Limit once per phase.)”
-----
Narvi’s Belt KD 3
Should read: “Action: Exhaust Narvi’s Belt to give
attached hero a Ì, Î, Ï, or Ê icon until the end of the
phase.”
-----
Zigil Miner KD 9
Should read: “Action: Exhaust Zigil Miner and name
a number to discard the top 2 cards of your deck. If at
least one of those cards has cost equal to the named
number, choose a hero you control. For each card that
matches the named number, add 1 resource to that
hero’s resource pool.”
-----
Snow Warg D 27
Should read: “Forced: After a character is declared as
a defender against Snow Warg...”
-----
Out of the Wild D 36
Should read: “Shuffle the encounter deck. Add Out of
the Wild to the victory display.”
-----
Hama D 76
Should read: “(Limit 3 times per game for the group.)”
Erebor Battle Master D 79
Should read: “Erebor Battle Master gets +1 Û for each
other Dwarf ally you control.”
-----
Out of Sight D 81
Should read: “Action: Enemies engaged with you
cannot attack you this phase.”
-----
Love of Tales D 85
Should read: “Response: After a Song card is played,
exhaust Love of Tales to add 1 resource...”
-----
We Are Not Idle D 129
Should read: “Exhaust X Dwarf heroes to add X...”
-----
O Elbereth! Gilthoniel! D 132
Title should read: “A Elbereth! Gilthoniel!”
Should read: “Response: After a non-unique enemy
attacks you...”
-----
Nori OHUH 3
Should read: “Response: After you play a Dwarf
character from your hand, reduce your threat by 1.”
-----
Thrór’s Map OHUH 13
Should read: “Travel Action: Exhaust Thrór’s Map to
choose a location in the staging area...”
-----
Troll Purse OHUH 42
Should read: “If Troll Purse is discarded, add it to the
staging area. If Troll Purse is unattached and in the
staging area, attach it to a Troll enemy, if able.”
-----
Troll Key OHUH 43
Should read: “If Troll Key is discarded, add it to the
staging area. If Troll Key is unattached and in the
staging area, attach it to a Troll enemy, if able.”
-----
Ravens of the Mountain OtD 11
Should read: “Action: Exhaust a hero you control to
shuffle the encounter deck and look at its top card..."
-----
Expert Treasure Hunter OtD 17
Should read: “Attach to a hero. Limit 1 per hero.”
-----
Secret Entrance OtD 45
Should read: “Then, look at the top card of the
encounter deck. If the looked at card is not...”
-----
Lost in the Dark 2B OtD 68
Should read: “When Revealed: Reveal stage 3 and
create a separate staging area for the first player using
that stage. If there are no other players in the game,
discard this stage and each card in its staging area. All
other players advance to stage 4."
-----
A Watchful Peace HoN 12
Should read: “Response: After a location worth no
victory points leaves play as an explored location...”
-----
Master of Lore HoN 16
Should read: “Action: Exhaust Master of Lore to name
a card type. Lower the cost for you to play the next Î
card of that type by 1 until the end of the phase (to a
minimum of 1).”
-----
Blocking Wargs HoN 29
Should read: “Surge. When Revealed: Deal 1 damage
to each character committed to the quest.”
Omit the parenthetical.
-----
The Power of Mordor HoN 61
Should read: “...Reveal an equal number of cards from
the encounter deck...”
Omit the word “Then”
-----
Trained for War AtS 36
Should read: “Action: Until the end of the phase, if the
current quest does not have siege, it gains battle.”
-----
Counter-attack AtS 106
Should read: “When Revealed: Each player must
either return the location he controls...”
-----
Caldara AtS 107
Should read: “(Limit once per game.)”
-----
The Ambush 1B AtS 117
Should read: “At the beginning of the combat phase,
each player must either turn each of his hidden cards
faceup, or take 1 hidden card.”
-----
The Cross-roads AtS 123
Should read: “The current quest card gains siege (and
loses battle).”
-----
Impenetrable Fog AtS 157
Should read: “When Revealed: The first player either
places 3 progress tokens on To the Tower, or...”
-----
Blue Mountain Trader RM 6
Should read: “Then, that player moves 1 resource from
the resource pool of a hero he controls to the resource
pool of a hero you control, or Blue Mountain Trader is
discarded. (Limit once per round.)”
-----
Wingfoot RM 92
Should read: “If a card of the named type is revealed
during this quest phase, exhaust Wingfoot to ready
attached hero.”
-----
Devilry of Saruman ToS 43
Should read: “When Revealed: Place 3 progress on the
main quest...”
-----
The Passage of the Marshes LoS 67
Should read: “Setup: Each player may change hero
cards he controls without incurring the +1 threat
penalty. Each player shuffles 1 copy...”
-----
(1.00) The Golden Rule
The Golden Rule reads: “If the game text of a card
contradicts the text of the rulebook, the text on the card
takes precedence.”
The Golden Rule applies when there is a direct
contradiction between card text and rules text. If it is
possible to observe both card text and the text of the
rulebook, both are observed.
Example: The rulebook (p. 15) reads: “Any progress
tokens that would be placed on a quest card are instead
placed on the active location.” Legolas (CORE 5) has
an effect that reads, “...place 2 progress tokens on the
current quest.” Legolas’ effect would place 2 progress
tokens on the quest; the core rule from page 15 instead
places those tokens on the active location. Thus, the
Legolas ability can successfully resolve, and the core
rule can be observed, without creating a golden rule
situation.
(If a card effect read, “place a progress token on the
current quest, bypassing any active location,” a direct
contradiction between card text and rulebook would be
created, and the golden rule would then take effect.)
-----
(1.01) Encounter Keywords
Surge, Doomed, and Guarded keywords should be
resolved any time the card on which they occur is
revealed from the encounter deck, including during
setup.
-----
(1.02) Simultaneous Effect Timing
If two or more conflicting effects would occur
simultaneously, the first player decides the order in
which the effects resolve.
Example: Tom plays Sneak Attack (CORE 23) to
put Beorn (CORE 31) into play during the combat
phase. Sneak Effect has the condition, “At the end of
the phase, if that ally is still in play, return it to your
hand.” During combat, Tom uses Beorn’s triggered
effect, which has the condition, “At the end of the
phase in which you trigger this effect, shuffle Beorn
back into your deck.” At the end of the phase, a
situation arises in which two conflicting effects are
attempting to resolve simultaneously on Beorn. The
first player determines which of the two effects resolves
first. (The second effect no longer applies when Beorn
leaves play.)
-----
(1.03) Conflicting Effect Targeting
If an encounter or quest effect attempts to target a
single player or card, and there are multiple eligible
targets, the first player selects the target of the effect
from among the eligible options.
Example: The card Caught in a Web (CORE 80) has an
effect that reads, “The player with the highest threat
level attaches this card to one of his heroes.” Tom and
Kris are tied for the highest threat level when Caught
in a Web is revealed, so the first player determines
whether the card affects Tom or Kris.
-----
(1.04) Damage and Multiple Defenders
If a player uses card effects to declare multiple
defenders against a single enemy attack, the defending
player must assign all damage from that attack to a
single defending character.
-----
(1.05) Removing Progress Tokens from Quests
When a card effect removes progress tokens from a
quest or quest card, the effect applies specifically to the
quest card, and never to the active location.
-----
(1.06) Control of Non-objective Encounter Cards
Players do not gain control of encounter cards unless
control of the card is explicitly granted by a card
effect. When an encounter card (such as Caught in a
Web, CORE 86) becomes an attachment and attaches
to a character, that character’s controller does not gain
control of the attachment.
-----
(1.07) Control of Objective Cards
When a player claims an objective card, he gains
control of that card unless otherwise directed by a card
effect.
-----
(1.08) Responses per Trigger
If a response or forced response is triggered, the effect
can only occur once per trigger.
Example: Theodred (CORE 2) reads, “Response: After
Theodred commits to a quest....” This effect can only be
triggered once each time Theodred commits to a quest.
-----
(1.09) Forced Responses
Forced responses resolve immediately when their
specified prerequisite occurs, and before any response
effects that also can be triggered off the same
prerequisite.
Example: Tower Gate (CORE 107) reads, “Forced:
After travelling to Tower Gate....” If a player wishes
to play a response such as Strength of Will (CORE 47)
after the players travel to Tower Gate, he must wait
until after the forced response resolves.
-----
(1.10) Limitations on Actions
Actions are only limited by whether or not a player can
pay the cost of the action, or by built in limitations on
the card itself, such as “limit once per round.”
Example: Protector of Lorien (CORE 70) reads,
“Action: Discard a card from your hand to....” This
action may be triggered three times per phase, as long
as the card’s controller has cards in hand to discard.
-----
(1.11) Limitations on Attacks
When a player is the active attacker during the combat
phase, the game rules grant him the option to declare
1 attack against each enemy with which he is engaged.
If, through card effects such as ranged, a player is able
to declare attacks against enemies with which he is not
engaged, the game rules still only provide for a single
attack against each of these enemies.
However, if a player makes an attack against an enemy
by a card effect such as Quick Strike (CS 35) or Hands
Upon the Bow (D 131), that is an extra attack and does
not count against the limit of 1 attack.
-----
(1.12) Exhaustion and Attachments
Attachments and the card to which they are attached
exhaust and ready independent of one another.
Example: Steward of Gondor (CORE 26) reads,
“Action: Exhaust Steward of Gondor to....” Using
this action only exhausts the Steward of Gondor card,
not the hero to which it is attached. Additionally,
exhausting the hero to which Steward of Gondor is
attached does not exhaust the Steward of Gondor card.
-----
(1.13) Characters and Enemies
“Character” refers to both hero and ally cards. Enemy
cards are not considered characters.
-----
(1.14) The word “cannot”
If a card effect uses the word “cannot”, then it is an
absolute: that effect cannot be overridden by other
effects.
(1.15) The word “then”
If a card effect uses the word “then,” then the preceding
effect must resolve successfully for the subsequent
dependent effect to resolve.
-----
(1.16) The phrase “put into play”
If a card effect uses the phrase “put into play,” it means
that the card enters play through a card effect instead
of through the normal process of paying resources and
playing the card from hand. “Put into play” effects
are not considered to be playing the card, and will not
trigger any effects that refer to a card being played.
“Put into play” will, however, trigger any effects that
occur when a card “enters play”.
Example: The quest Through the Caverns (CORE 124)
has the text, “The players, as a group, cannot play
more than one ally card each round.” While this quest
is active, a player can put an ally into play with Stand
and Fight (CORE 51), even if an ally has already been
played this round.
-----
(1.17) Unclaimed Objectives
An unclaimed objective is one that is not currently
claimed and under the control of a player. An
unclaimed objective can be guarded or unguarded.
A guarded objective is treated like an attachment if
guarded by an enemy or location, and remains attached
to that card until it leaves play, at which point it will
return to the staging area. Any unclaimed objective
in the staging area that is not attached to a card is
considered to be unguarded. If an objective is claimed
at one point, and then returns to the staging area, it
regains the status of unclaimed.
-----
(1.18) Explored Locations Leaving Play
A location card is immediately discarded from play
any time it has as many progress tokens as it has quest
points, whether it is active or not.
-----
(1.19) Card Effects during Setup
“When Revealed” effects are resolved if the cards are
revealed during setup. A player can trigger responses
during setup, following the normal game rules. Players
cannot take Actions during setup.
“When Revealed” effects that last “until the end of the
phase” will last until the end of the first resource phase.
Effects that last “until the end of the round”, will last
until the end of the first round.
-----
(1.20) Engaged Enemies
During the quest phase, engaged enemies do not count
their threat for the staging area.
An enemy remains engaged with a player until it is
defeated or until a card effect returns it to the staging
area, engages it to another player, or removes it from
play.
-----
(1.21) Search Effects
Whenever a player searches through a deck, that player
shuffles the deck after searching it unless a card effect
says otherwise. Players do not shuffle or change the
order of a discard pile after searching it.
-----
(1.22) “When Revealed” Effects
A card is only considered to be revealed if the card or
game effect causing the card to enter play specifically
uses a form of the word “reveal”.
Example: If the players use the Stage 3b “Don’t Leave
the Path!” (CORE 121) quest card effect to search
for a King Spider and put it into play, the “When
Revealed” effect on the King Spider will not trigger,
since the effect on “Don’t Leave the Path!” does not
specifically use a form of the word “reveal.”
-----
(1.23) Attachments
Any objective card that attaches to another card is
treated as an attachment in addition to its other card
types.
Any non-objective card that attaches to another card
loses its original card type and gains the attachment
card type.
The “Attach to...” rules text on an attachment is only a
play restriction, and is not taken into account after the
card is already attached.
-----
(1.24) Questing Successfully
Questing successfully and the physical placement of
progress tokens are two separate game occurrences
that happen in sequence during the Quest Resolution
step. As soon as the players determine that the total
committed Willpower is greater than the total Threat in
the staging area, they are considered to have quested
successfully. Any Forced or passive effects initiated by
questing successfully resolve before physically placing
progress tokens.
Example: Tom has just successfully quested during
stage 1B of The Hunt Begins (SoM 11), and he will be
placing enough progress to advance to the next stage.
However, he must first resolve the Forced effect (which
resolves immediately upon the occurence of “questing
succesfully”) before placing progress tokens on the
quest.
-----
(1.25) Collecting, Adding, Moving, and Gaining
Resources
Collecting resources refers to both collecting resources
during the resource phase and gaining resources
through other card effects. An effect that prevents a
hero from collecting resources prevents both methods
of acquiring new resources.
Adding a resource to a hero’s pool is the act of taking a
resource from the token bank and placing it in that hero’s
pool. Adding a resource always results in the total number
of resources controlled by the players being increased.
Moving a resource is the act of taking a resource from one
hero’s pool and placing it in another hero’s pool. This does
not count as ‘adding’ a resource because it did not take a
new resource from the token bank and the total number of
resources controlled by the players did not increase.
Gaining a resource is a blanket term that includes
collecting, adding and moving. Any time the number
of resources in a hero’s pool is increased, that hero has
gained one or more resources.
-----
(1.26) The word “switch”
In order for a switch to occur, switched items must
exist on both sides of the switch.
-----
(1.27) Bypass the active location
The only time an active location does not act as a
buffer for progress to be placed on a quest is when card
text specifically instructs the players to “bypass” the
active location.
-----
(1.28) Enemy attacks outside of the combat phase
If an enemy attacks outside of the combat phase, it is
still dealt a shadow card at the beginning of the attack.
Then follow the 4 steps under Phase 6 “Combat” in
the rules. There is an action window after each step.
Any shadow cards dealt to the attacking enemy are
discarded after the attack resolves.
-----
(1.29) Victory Display
The victory display is a game area where victory points
are tracked. Cards in the victory display are considered
to be out of play, but are not considered to be a part of
the encounter discard pile. Cards in the victory display
are not considered “removed from game,” and some
card effects may still interact with them.
-----
(1.30) “First Player” elimination
If the player with the first player token is eliminated,
the first player token immediately passes clockwise to
the next eligible player.
-----
(1.31) Self-referential effects
If a card refers to its own title in its text it should be
read as referring only to that copy of the card. A card
that refers to other copies of itself will use the language
“any copy of...” or “another copy of...” or “a card with
the title...”
6
-----
(1.32) Mid-Attack Control or Engagement Change
If a card involved in combat changes control, is
returned to the staging area, or engages another player
during the resolution of an attack, that attack still
resolves with the card still participating from its new
state.
-----
(1.33) Attacks by non-engaged enemies
When an enemy attacks a player, that player may
declare 1 defender whether the enemy is engaged with
him or not. Sentinel may also be used to defend against
such attacks.
-----
(1.34) Two active locations
If a card effect causes two locations to be active at the
same time, they are both considered to be the active
location. However, when a card effect targets “the
active location,” it does not target both active locations
at the same time. The first player must choose which of
the active locations the effect will target. Both active
locations serve as buffers for the quest stage and when
placing progress on the active location, the players
may divide that progress among both active locations
however they choose.
-----
(1.35) “Enters the staging area”
Enters the staging area is a term that applies to a card
(enemy, location, objective, etc) that is placed in the
staging area. This term applies whether the card in
question has been revealed from the encounter deck,
placed in the staging area from out of play, returned
from the discard pile or from engaged with a player, or
by other means.
-----
(1.36) Triggered abilities vs. Passive abilities
Triggered abilities are abilities on cards that have a
bold trigger word such as Action or Response. These
abilities are only applied when they are triggered.
Passive abilities are abilities on cards that have an
ongoing effect without a bold trigger word. Because
passive abilities don’t have a trigger they are always
active and cannot be “triggered”.
-----
(1.37) Timing of effect resolution
When resolving multiple effects with a shared
condition, players should use this order of resolution:
passive abilities first, Forced effects second, Response
actions third. When determining the order of effect
resolution among abilities within those categories,
players should first resolve abilities that use the word
“when” and then resolve abilities with the word “after”.
A player card effect that cancels an encounter card
effect interrupts this timing structure. A cancel effect
must be triggered immediately after the encounter card
effect that it cancels.
-----
(1.38) Control of attachments
When a player plays an attachment on a character
controlled by another player, that character’s controller
gains control of the attachment. When a player plays
an attachment into the staging area, or on an enemy or
location, that player retains control of that attachment.
-----
(1.39) Staging objective cards
When a player reveals an objective from the encounter
deck, he adds it to the staging area unless that objective
instructs the player to do something different.
-----
(1.40) The letter X
Unless specified by a card effect, or granted player
choice, the letter "X" is equal to 0.
-----
(1.41) Attacks against a character
An attack made against a character works the same as
an attack made against a player with one exception:
undefended damage from an attack against a character
must be assigned to that character.
For example: Bilbo Baggins (OtD 1) has the most
poison attached when Crazy Cob (OtD 29) is revealed
from the encounter deck and its "When Revealed"
effect triggers an attack against the character with
the most poison attached. Even though the first player
controls 3 other heroes, any undefended damage from
this attack must be applied to Bilbo Baggins. Because
Bilbo is already exhausted from committing to the
quest, he cannot exhaust to defend himself and will be
killed if the attack is undefended. Knowing this, the first
player chooses to exhaust one of his ready characters,
Bombur, to declare him as the defender for this attack.
At this point, the attack resolves as normal and any
damage from the attack is applied to Bombur.
-----
(1.42) Additional attacks by an enemy
When an enemy makes an additional attack, discard all
of its previously dealt shadow cards before dealing it a
new shadow card.
-----
(1.43) Modifiers of variable quantities
The game state constantly checks and (if necessary)
updates the count of any variable quantity that is being
modified. Any time a new modifier is applied, the
entire quantity is recalculated, considering all active
modifiers.
A quantity cannot be reduced below zero: a card cannot
have “negative” cost, stats, keywords, etc.
-----
(1.44) “Must X or Y” vs “must either X or Y”
If a card instructs a player to perform one task or
perform a second task using the structure “... must X or
Y...” then the player must attempt to perform the first
task, and performs the second task instead only if the
first task cannot be performed.
If a card instead uses the structure “... must either X or
Y...” then the player may choose which task to perform,
although one of them must be performed in full, if able.
7
-----
(1.45) “Reveal” vs “Reveal and add”
Any time encounter cards are “revealed” from the
encounter deck, the players should follow the rules for
staging as explained on page 14 of the rulebook and
rule (1.39) of this document.
If a card effect uses the phase “Reveal and add to the
staging area”, it means the same as simply using the
word “reveal”, and the above steps should still be
followed (i.e. treachery cards should still be discarded
after resolving its effects, unless otherwise indicated by
the card’s text).
-----
(1.46) “Next” player
If there is only one player in the game, there is no next
player. Card effects that target the “next” player will
not trigger if there is only one player in the game.
For example: The shadow effect of Pathless Country
(TBR 72) reads: “Shadow: After this attack, the
attacking enemy engages the next player then makes
an immediate attack.” If there is only one player
in the game, there is no next player to engage. The
word “then” indicates that the immediate attack is
conditional on the attacking enemy engaging the next
player, so the enemy will not make an immediate attack.
-----
(1.47) “Immune to player card effects”, expanded
Cards with the text “Immune to player card effects”
ignore the effects of all player cards. This means
that player card effects cannot directly influence or
interact with a card that is immune to player card
effects. Examples include dealing damage to an enemy,
placing progress on a location, altering a card’s text or
statistics, moving a card, engaging an enemy, traveling
to a location, or discarding a card.
However, a card that is immune to player card effects
can still be affected by normal framework effects
such as placing progress from questing successfully,
engaging an enemy during the encounter phase, or
dealing damage through an attack made by a character.
For example: Pippin’s (TBR 4) passive ability cannot
increase the engagement cost of an enemy that is
immune to player card effects, because that enemy
will ignore Pippin’s effect. However, if you engage an
enemy who is immune to player card effects and has
an engagement cost higher than your threat, you may
still use Pippin’s Response to draw a card, because this
response is not affecting the enemy in any way.
Additionally, cards that are immune to player card
effects cannot be chosen as targets of player card
effects. This means that any player card that uses a
form of the words “target” or “choose” cannot choose
a card that is immune to player card effects as its
target. This includes the “attach to...” text of any player
attachment. Player cards that do not use the word
“target” or “choose” but force the player to choose a
specific card cannot choose a card that is immune to
player card effects.
For example: Hands Upon the Bow (D 131) cannot be
used to attack an enemy that is immune to player card
effects, because it clearly indicates that the player must
pick an enemy in the staging area to attack. This is
different from Quick Strike (Core 35), which targets a
character and allows them to perform a normal attack,
which is a framework effect.
-----
(1.48) Discarding cards vs placing cards in the
discard pile
When a character is destroyed, or an event card is played,
it is placed in the discard pile. This is not the same as
being “discarded.” Cards are only discarded when a card
effect instructs a player to discard a card.
-----
(1.49) Engaging enemies vs being engaged
When a player engages an enemy, that enemy has also
engaged him, and when an enemy engages a player, that
player has also engaged that enemy. There is no difference
between engaging an enemy and being engaged by an
enemy. Effects that trigger “after an enemy engages you”
will trigger at the same time as effects that trigger “after
you engage an enemy.”
-----
(1.50) “Considered to be engaged” vs actual
engagement
An enemy that does not leave the staging area but is
considered to be engaged with a player does not actually
engage that player, nor does that player engage it. In order
for a player to engage an enemy, the enemy card must
physically enter his play area.
For example: Durin’s Bane (D 150) cannot leave the
staging area and is considered to be engaged with two
players. Player 1 has Mablung (RM 84) and wishes
to trigger his Response effect, but he cannot because
he has not actually engaged Durin’s Bane. Player 2
wishes to play Feint (CORE 34) to prevent Durin’s Bane
from attacking him. He can, because Durin’s Bane is
considered to be engaged with him.
-----
(1.51) Limitations on card effects
When a card with a triggered effect has a limit on the
number of times that effect can be triggered (i.e. “Once
per round,” “Limit 3 times per phase,” etc.), the limit
is specific to that card. However, if a card has a limit of
“once per game,” that limitation is specific to the player
who triggered it.
8
-----
(1.52) “The defending player”
When an enemy makes an attack against a player, or
a character controlled by a player, that player is “the
defending player” regardless of whose character is
declared as a defender. Card effects, including shadow
card effects, that target “the defending player” or “you”
still target the player who the enemy is attacking even if
another player declares one of his characters as a defender
for that attack.
-----
(1.53) Canceling an encounter card effect
When an encounter card effect is canceled, the game
proceeds as if that encounter effect was never triggered.
The rest of the encounter card is resolved as normal.
For example: If a player plays A Test of Will (CORE
50) to cancel the ‘when revealed’ effect of Dark Sorcery
(TLR 65), each player must still raise his threat by 2 for
the Doomed 2 keyword on Dark Sorcery. Additionally,
any effects that triggers after a card with the Sorcery
trait is revealed will still trigger because Dark Sorcery
has the Sorcery trait, and even though its ‘when
revealed’ effect was canceled, the card itself was still
revealed.
-----
(1.54) Canceling an encounter card
When an encounter card is canceled, the game proceeds as
if that encounter card was never revealed, except for it still
fulfills that encounter card reveal. Effects that would have
triggered in response to the canceled encounter card being
revealed cannot be triggered.
For example: If a player plays The Door is Closed (AA
92) to cancel Dark Sorcery (TLR 65), the Doomed 2
keyword on Dark Sorcery will not trigger, nor will any
effects that trigger after a card with the Sorcery trait
is revealed, because the entire encounter card was
canceled.
-----
(1.55) Lasting Effects
There are two classes of lasting effects in the game: those
created by player cards and those created by encounter
cards. Each class is handled differently as follows:
A lasting effect created by a player card ability must be
calculated at the time that the ability is triggered, and that
effect is not recalculated if the game state changes.
For example: If a player triggers the Quest Action
on Nenya (RM 121) to add Galadriel’s (RM 112) 4
willpower to another hero until the end of the phase, that
+4 willpower bonus will not be recalculated if Galadriel’s
willpower is increased later that phase.
A lasting effect created by an encounter card ability, is
recalculated if the game state changes.
For example: Part of the ‘when revealed’ ability on
Poisoned Vapour (ToS 61) reads: “Until the end of the
combat phase, treat each damaged character’s text box
as if it were blank (except for Traits).” If Aragorn (ToS 1)
had 1 damage at the time Poisoned Vapour was revealed,
his text box would be treated as if it were blank. However,
if that damage was healed, his text box would no longer
be considered blank. If he was damaged again, his text
box would be treated as if it were blank until the end of the
combat phase.
-----
(1.56) “Cannot have attachments”
The text “cannot have attachments” is absolute. It is
possible to play attachments on a card with this text while
its text box is considered to be blank, but any attachments
on that card must be discarded immediately the moment
its text is active again.
-----
(1.57) Threat elimination
A player is immediately eliminated from the game the
moment his threat reaches his threat elimination level
regardless of card effects in play.
For example: A player who has played Vanish from Sight
(DC 11) treats his threat as if it was 20 until the end of the
phase, but if his threat dial reaches his threat elimination
level, he is still immediately eliminated from the game.
-----
(1.58) Triggering Forced effects
A Forced effect must be in play and active at the time
its trigger occurs in order to resolve its effect. If the
resolution of another effect causes a Forced effect to enter
play or become active after its triggered has occured, that
Forced effect is not resolved.
For example: Stage 1B of Helm’s Deep reads: “Forced:
At the end of the round, advance to stage 2A,” and stage
2B reads “Forced: At the end of the round, place 1
progress here for each enemy in the staging area.” When
the end of the round triggers, the players resolve the
Forced effect on stage 1 and advance to stage 2, but they
do not resolve the Forced effect on stage 2B because it
was not in play when the end of the round triggered.
-----
Expert Game
This section elaborates upon the “expert game” variant
that is introduced on page 27 of the Core Set rulebook.
When playing the “expert game” variant each player’s
threat, wounds, and discard pile do not reset when
setting up a new scenario.
To reset the other game elements at the beginning of
a new “expert game” scenario, perform the following
steps in order:
1) All non-hero cards in play and in hand are shuffled
into their owner’s decks. All encounter cards are
returned to their encounter sets so they are available
for the next scenario, if needed. This includes cards in
players’ victory display.
2) All unspent resources are discarded from the heroes’
resource pools.
3) Each player draws a new starting hand per the
regular setup rules of the game. A single mulligan may
be taken by each player at this time.
4) A player cannot start a scenario with a threat level
that is lower than the combined threat cost of his
heroes. If a player’s threat is lower than the starting
threat cost of his heroes, he must increase his threat to
that value.
5) Follow all setup instructions for the new scenario.
Each scenario should be scored separately, and then all
the scores added together at the end of the variant.
Scoring
This section introduces an additional element to the
scoring system presented on page 22 of the core
rulebook. This revised scoring will be implemented at
all FFG sanctioned organized play events, and should
be used on the LOTR LCG Quest Log available at
FantasyFlightGames.com.
In addition to all elements currently used to score a
game, players also add an additional 10 points to their
“final group score” for each round of play that is taken
to defeat a scenario. Players tally each round for their
score at the end of the refresh phase.
A modified scoring sheet has been provided as the
final page of this document. The tally of rounds can be
tracked on the notes section of these sheets.
Frequently Asked Questions
This section applies to material covered in previous
sections, in the core rulebook, and in Adventure Pack
inserts. It answers some of the most frequently asked
questions that arise while playing The Lord of the
Rings: The Card Game.
-----
Q: If the players do not commit any characters to a
quest, does the staging area still count its threat against
them?
A: Yes, the threat in the staging area still counts
against the players, who have a combined committed
willpower of 0.
-----
Q: Does a player commit his characters to a quest at
once, or one character at a time? When can a player
trigger responses to committing his characters to a
quest?
A: A player commits all characters he wishes to
commit to a quest at once. Responses to the characters
committing (such as those on Aragorn and Theodred)
can then be triggered in the order of that player’s
choice. After a player has committed his characters
(and triggered any responses to those characters
committing), the next player has the opportunity to
commit his characters to the quest.
-----
Q: Does the effect on Legolas (CORE 5) place progress
tokens on an active location, if there is one?
A: Yes. Always place progress tokens on an active
location instead of the quest, unless the ability
specifically states to bypass any active location.
-----
Q: When do “after this enemy attacks” Forced effects
like those on Chieftan Ufthak (CORE 90) and Wargs
(CORE 85) resolve?
A: These effects resolve immediately after step 4 of
enemy attack resolution.
-----
Q: Can a player have cards in his player deck from
a sphere that doesn’t match the sphere of one of his
heroes?
A: There is nothing in the rules that disallows this,
although a player will need to find clever card
interactions to make use of such cards.
-----
Q: Does Dungeon Jailer (CORE 101) shuffle guarded
objectives back into the encounter deck?
A: Yes. Dungeon Jailer will shuffle any unclaimed
objective, whether or not it is guarded.
-----
Q: Can a player use a response effect like the one on
Eleanor (CORE 8) during setup?
A: Yes. Responses can be triggered at any time they
meet their specified prerequisite, including during
setup.
10
-----
Q: Do the Orc Guards generated by the effects of the
Tower Gate location card and the Out of the Dungeons
quest card have the Orc Trait?
A: No. Face down cards do not have traits unless the
trait is gained through a card effect.
-----
Q: When should Feint (CORE 34) be played?
A: This card should be played any time before
resolving step 1 of the target enemy’s attack during the
combat phase. (Once the act of resolving an enemy’s
attack begins, it is too late to prevent it from attacking
with Feint.)
-----
Q: In what order is players’ optional engagement
handled?
A: The first player has the first opportunity to
optionally engage an enemy, or pass. After that, each
player, moving clockwise, has the option to engage one
enemy. Once each player has had this opportunity, this
step is complete.
-----
Q: What happens to Banks of the Anduin (CORE 113)
if it is drawn as a Shadow card?
A: It will be discarded from play at the end of the
combat phase, like other Shadow cards. When a card
is drawn as a Shadow card, only its Shadow text is
considered to be active.
Q. If Wolf Rider (CORE 81) is drawn as a Shadow
card, when is it returned to the top of the encounter
deck?
A: “After combat” refers to the end of the combat
phase, when Shadow cards normally leave play.
Q. If I cancel the Shadow effect on a card dealt to the
Nazgûl of Dol Guldur (CORE 102), is the effect still
considered to have resolved, making me discard a
character?
A: No. Resolving an effect means that the effect
triggered and resolved to the fullest extent possible.
Canceling the effect will prevent the Nazgûl of Dol
Guldur’s ability from triggering, just as if the card had
no Shadow effect to begin with.
Q. Does a player with the Dungeon Torch (CORE 109)
raise his threat by 2 or 3 during the refresh phase?
A: Dungeon Torch’s effect does not replace the regular
1 threat raise, but adds to it. So the player with the
Dungeon Torch raises his threat by 3.
Q. If Legolas has a Blade of Gondolin (CORE 39) and
destroys an enemy, can he trigger his response, finish
off a quest card, and still place progress tokens on the
next quest with the Blade of Gondolin’s response?
A: Yes. Quest cards are immediately replaced as
soon as players place enough progress on them,
and this replacement does not interrupt the current
round sequence. If the current quest card only needs
1 progress on it, then a player could also trigger
the Blade’s effect first, and then Legolas’ in order to
maximize the number of progress tokens placed. (There
is no carry-over progress from an effect).
-----
Q: How does a player resolve the situation in which
a single hero has multiple copies of Caught in a Web
(CORE 80) attached?
A: The player must pay for each copy of Caught in a
Web before the hero can ready. Each copy of the card
creates an independent condition that must be fulfilled
before readying the attached hero, so if each condition
is not fulfilled the hero cannot ready. End result, if a
hero has two copies of Caught in a Web attached, the
player will have to pay 4 resources from that hero’s
resource pool in order to ready the card.
-----
Q: If players have placed progress tokens on a quest
equal to its quest points, but a game effect prevents
them from advancing, can they continue to place
progress tokens on the quest?
A: Yes. There is no upper limit to how many progress
tokens may be placed on a quest.
-----
Q: Can characters with the ranged keyword participate
in an attack declared through the card Quick Strike
(CORE 35)?
A: No. There is no opportunity for other characters to
join a Quick Strike attack. One character is exhausted
to pay for the cost of Quick Strike, and the effect is that
the exhausted character is immediately declared as an
attacker against the target enemy. The card’s resolution
does not allow for a standard declaration step in which
other characters can declare.
-----
Q: Wilyador (SoM 64) cannot be healed of more than
5 wounds by a single effect, so how do I resolve the
“when revealed” text on Return to Rhosgobel 3B (SoM
62)?
A: Heal 5 wounds from Wilyador for each Athelas
objective card as its own separate action.
-----
Q: Can Brand son of Bain (SoM 72) trigger his
response if he participates in a ranged attack that
defeats an enemy engaged with another player instead
of declaring the attack himself ?
A: Yes. Declaring an attack and participating in an
attack are both subsets of attacking. In both cases
Brand attacks and can trigger his response if the enemy
is defeated. 
11
-----
Q: If a Sacked! (SoM 48) card is placed on a hero
while that hero is questing is that hero removed from
the quest?
A: No. Sacked! specifies only that the hero cannot
commit to the quest, and the hero is already committed.
However, the hero cannot commit to quests on future
rounds while Sacked! is attached.
-----
Q: If Eleanor (CORE 8) is used to cancel the “when
revealed” effects of a treachery card, are any surge or
doomed keywords on that card also canceled?
A: No. Eleanor only cancels the “when revealed”
effects of the treachery card. Any surge or doomed
keywords on the card resolve before the new
(replacement) card is revealed.
-----
Q: Is Against the Trolls (SoM 32) the final stage of
Conflict at the Carrock?
A: Yes.
-----
Q: What happens if Wandering Took (CORE 43)
changes control between players during combat after
being declared as a defender?
A: As nothing removes Wandering Took from the
combat or from play, it remains declared as a defender
against the attack. (The “defending player” does not
change, even though control of the defending character
has changed.)
-----
Q: If a player is eliminated during the staging step of
the quest phase, before all encounter cards are revealed,
does the elimination reduce the number of cards that
should be revealed for staging?
A: The base number of cards to be revealed is
determined at the beginning of the staging step, and
does not change if a player is eliminated during
staging.
-----
Q: If all of a player’s heroes (except for the captured
hero) are destroyed during the Escape from Dol Guldr
scenario, is that player eliminated from the game?
A: Yes, the player is eliminated, and the players (as a
group) have lost.
-----
Q: When paying for a Creature with resources
from Radagast’s (SoM 59) pool, is a resource match
required?
A: No. Radagast’s ability breaks the need for a resource
match if the resources are coming only from his pool.
(If combining his resources with resources from a
hero’s pool, the hero’s sphere must match the sphere of
the Creature being played.)
-----
Q: If I can’t discard 3 resources from all of my heroes
due to Bitter Wind (KD 56), do I have to partially fulfill
the effect?
A: Yes, players should resolve as much of any
“discard” effect as they are able to.
-----
Q: If a player does not declare any defenders against an
attack, is he still considered the defending player?
A: Yes, the player an enemy is attacking is considered
to be the defending player. Whether or not he declares
defenders, and whether or not any other player
declares defenders for him, does not change his status
as the defending player for the attack.
-----
Q: If A Light in the Dark (CORE 52) is played midattack
(e.g. after defender is declared), does the act of
returning it to the staging area immediately end the
attack because the enemy is no longer engaged with
any player?
A: No. A Light in the Dark does not cancel or stop an
attack that is already in the process of resolution. The
only step in which the enemy needs to be engaged with
the attacked player is step 1 of the Combat phase. So,
in order to prevent an attack, A Light in the Dark must
be played on an engaged enemy prior to choosing to
resolve its attack during step 1.
-----
Q: Can I use Son of Arnor (SoM 15) to engage The
Watcher (DD 72), even though The Watcher reads
“...cannot be optionally engaged”?
A: Yes. The ability on Son of Arnor does not count as
optionally engaging The Watcher. Optional engagement
only occurs during step 1 of the Encounter phase.
-----
Q: If Caradhras (DD 15) is in my victory display when
I complete stage 2 of The Redhorn Gate, will it become
the active location even though it is not in play?
A: Yes. You will remove Caradhras from your victory
display and put it back into play as the active location.
Cards in the victory display are not removed from the
game and can still be referenced by effects. If players
get too far ahead of themselves via card effects, they’ll
find a return journey is necessary!
-----
Q: If there are two copies of Pelennor Fields (MaO
10) in the staging area and I travel to one of them, do
I still have to raise my threat by 3? What if I have the
opportunity to travel and travel to neither of them?
A: If a card is self-referential, it refers only to that copy
of itself. So if you travel to one copy of the Pelennor
Fields, the other copy will raise your threat by 3
because it only takes into account whether you traveled
to that particular copy of the Pelennor Fields. So if you
travel to neither copy, they both resolve and you must
raise your threat by 6.
12
-----
Q: When an enemy makes an attack against me from
the staging area, can I declare a defender?
A: Yes. If an enemy attacks you, you can exhaust
1 character you control to declare it as a defender
against that attack, whether that enemy is engaged with
you or not.
-----
Q: What is the difference between “adding” a card to
the staging area versus “placing” a card in the staging
area?
A: There is no difference between “adding” a card to
the staging area versus “placing” a card in the staging
area. These words are used interchangeably and mean
the same thing in all instances.
-----
Q: Are attachments already in play discarded when
Amon Lhaw (SoM 84) becomes the active location?
A: No. Attachments only check play restrictions when
entering play. Attachments already in play will stay
attached.
-----
Q: When players have separate staging areas at stage 4
of Foundations of Stone, can there be multiple copies
of unique cards in play?
A: No. Players must still respect the rules for playing
unique cards when they are split up. For example, if a
player has Gandalf (CORE 73) in play, then no other
player can play Gandalf.
-----
Q: How does the card Lost and Alone (DD 124) work?
What if the hero gets attached to a Nameless Thing
(DD 125) or was my last hero in play?
A: You only put the lost hero back into play if you draw
the hero, whether during the resource phase or through
a card effect. If the hero is discarded or attached to a
card like a Nameless Thing, then treat it like any other
card. In the latter situation, the value of the hero would
be null, since it has no printed cost. If your last hero
gets shuffled into your deck you are not eliminated from
the game; heroes are not considered to be killed unless
they are in your discard pile. You will continue playing
until you either draw the hero, are eliminated through
other means, or the game ends.
-----
Q: When I play We Are Not Idle (D 129) and exhaust
Bombur (OtD 5), do I get 2 resources?
A: No. Bombur’s ability only works with cards that
count the number of Dwarf characters you control. If
you choose to exhaust Bombur with We Are Not Idle,
you are still only exhausting 1 Dwarf character and
will therefore only receive 1 resource.
-----
Q: When I use the ability on Vilya (D 109) to play a
card, do I still need a resource match?
A: No. Playing a card at “no cost” is different from
playing a card for “0 cost.” A 0 cost card still requires
a resource match, however, playing a card at “no cost”
removes the need for a resource match.
-----
Q: If an attachment gives a permanent stat bonus,
does that bonus still apply when the attachment is
exhausted?
A: Yes. Exhausting an attachment does not negate
any permanent bonus that attachment grants to the
attached character.
-----
Q: If there is an active location with the text "Immune
to player card effects" when Legolas participates in an
attack that destroys an enemy, do I place 2 progress on
the active location or the quest?
A: No. When Legolas' ability would put progress on
the current quest, if there is an active location, it puts
progress on that location instead. If that location is
immune to player card effects, it ignores Legolas'
ability. Therefore, no progress would be placed on the
active location or the current quest.
-----
Q: If an enemy does not attack or its attack is canceled,
what happens to its shadow card(s)?
A: At the end of the combat phase, discard each
unresolved shadow card in play. (Do not resolve the
effects on these shadow cards)
-----
Q: If a location is revealed after Treacherous Fog
(CORE 118) was revealed during the same quest phase,
does the revealed location get +1 $ from the “When
Revealed” effect on Treacherous Fog?
A: Yes. The “When Revealed” effect on Treacherous
Fog creates a lasting effect until the end of the phase
that affects each location in the staging area. This is
different from Driven by Shadow (CORE 92) which
uses the language “currently in the staging area” when
it is revealed and only affects enemies and locations in
the staging area at the time it is revealed.
-----
Q: Can I use Fortune or Fate (CORE 54) to put Beorn
(OHUH 5) into play from a player's discard pile, even
though he is immune to player card effects?
A: Yes. A hero's ability is only active while it is in play.
Therefore, Beorn is not immune to player card effects
(such as Fortune or Fate) while he is in the discard
pile.
-----
Q: If there is an unattached Ranger Spikes (HoN17)
in the staging area when an enemy with the ambush
keyword is revealed from the deck, what happens?
A: The Ranger Spikes will attach to that enemy,
preventing the players from making the engagement
checks for the ambush keyword.
13
-----
Q: When Oin (OtD 4) gains the tactics resource icon
from his ability, does that count as the "printed" tactics
resource icon?
A: No. The "printed" resource icon always refers to
the icon that appears in the Resource Icon space as
identified on page 8 in the rulebook.
-----
Q: If there are no characters with poison attached when
Crazy Cob (OtD 29) is revealed from the encounter
deck, does it still make an attack?
A: Yes. Since each character has 0 poison, the first
player will choose which character Crazy Cob attacks.
-----
Q: If I give control of one of my heroes to another
player with Desperate Alliance (OtD 10) and my other
heroes are killed, am I eliminated from the game?
A: No. A player is not eliminated from the game
unless each of his heroes is killed. The hero chosen by
Desperate Alliance is still in play and will return to
your control at the end of the phase.
-----
Q: If I play Expecting Mischief (OHUH 18) and it
deals enough damage to the first enemy revealed to
destroy it, do I still resolve any “when revealed” or
keyword effects on that enemy?
A: No. The effect on Expecting Mischief resolves the
same way as the effect on Thalin (Core 6).
-----
Q: Is a shadow card effect considered an encounter
card effect?
A: Yes. Cards that prevent characters from canceling
encounter card effects also prevent players from
canceling shadow card effects.
-----
Q: If the effect on Dwarrowdelf Axe (KD 7) destroys
an enemy, can I play Foe-hammer (OHUH 15)?
A: No. In order to play Foe-hammer, the attacking
character must destroy the enemy. That means dealing
enough damage to it with attack strength.
-----
Q: Can you put Fili (OHUH 6) into play for free from
your hand after you play Kili (OHUH 7)?
A: No. For either character's ability to work, the other
character must enter play from your deck.
-----
Q: After False Lead (SF 25) is revealed and its effect
resolves, do the players continue staging?
A: No. The quest phase ends immediately and the
players do not continue staging.
-----
Q: What happens if an attacking enemy is destroyed
before its attack resolves?
A: When resolving an enemy attack, the defending
player should check the status of the attacking enemy
at end of each step: is there still an attacking enemy? If
yes, proceed to next step. If no, end the attack.
-----
Q: When an enemy that has already made an attack
engages a new player during the combat phase, does it
make another attack?
A: Not unless it is directed to by card effect.
-----
Q: While attempting to answer a Riddle in the scenario
Dungeons Deep and Caverns Dim, when can players
take actions?
A: Players can take actions after step 2, before step 3.
-----
Q: While making a Burgle attempt in The Lonely
Mountain scenario, when can players take actions?
A: Players can take actions after step 2, before step 3.
-----
Q: Can I play an attachment on an enemy or location
that is immune to player card effects?
A: No. Playing an attachment on a card is a form
of targeting, and cards with "immune to player card
effects" cannot be targeted by player cards.
-----
Q: Can I use Quick Strike (Core 35) to declare an
attack against an enemy that is immune to player card
effects?
A: Yes. The effect of Quick Strike targets a character
and allows that character to make an attack, therefore
the chosen enemy's immunity does not factor.
-----
Q: What counts as a “ranged” attack?
A: A ranged attack is an attack made by a character
with the ranged keyword against an enemy engaged
with another player.
-----
Q: Can I used A Good Harvest (AtS 10) to play a 0 cost
card without a resource match?
A: No. A Good Harvest only allows you to spend
resources for the named sphere, a resource match is
still needed to play cards with no resource cost.
-----
Q: If a card is attached to Nameless Thing (D 125) as
part of the resolution of its Forced effect, is that card’s
game text active?
A: No. Cards that are attached to Nameless Thing (or
Elder Nameless Thing) as a result of triggering its
Forced effect are considered attachments with no card
title or game text. The only active part of the attached
card is its cost.
-----
Q: When an enemy makes an attack as part of its
“when revealed” effect, is that enemy in the staging
area?
A: No. Enemies are added to the staging after resolving
their “when revealed” effects. An enemy that makes an
attack as part of its “when revealed” effect, is not in
the staging area or engaged with the defending player
unless a card effect says it is.
14
-----
Q: When playing with the A Journey to Rhosgobel
Nightmare Deck, can Shot From the Sky (AJtR 7) and
Noxious Supplies (AJtR 8) attach to Wilyador (SoM
64), even though he has the text, “No attachments”?
A: Yes. The Adventure Pack insert for A Journey to
Rhosgobel defines “no attachments” as meaning that
“players cannot play or move attachment cards onto
Wilyador.” Since players are not playing or moving
these attachments (an encounter card effect is attaching
them), they can be attached to Wilyador.
-----
Q: If I engage more than one enemy with a higher
engagement cost than my threat, will the second part of
Sam Gamgee’s (TBR 2) ability trigger more than once,
even if I cannot ready him more than once?
A: Yes. Because it does not use the word “then”,
Sam’s bonus to Ò, Û and Ú is not dependent on
him readying. His readying effect and his bonus
to Ò, Û and Ú are two different effects that both
have the trigger of engaging an enemy with a higher
engagement cost than your threat.
-----
Q: If an enemy is put into play directly engaged with
me, has that enemy “engaged” me for the purposes
Forced effects or Responses that trigger from engaging
an enemy?
A: Yes. An enemy that enters play directly engaged with
a player has engaged that player.
-----
Q: Can I use Dori (OHUH 9) to prevent damage from
being assigned to Beorn (OHUH 5), even though Beorn
is immune to player card effects?
A: Yes. Dori’s Response targets the damage being
assigned, not the character it is being assigned to, so
Beorn’s immunity does not factor.
-----
Q: When playing The Blood of Gondor, if a card effect
such as stage 1b of The Ambush (AtS 117) or Lying in
Wait (AtS 129) turns each of my hidden cards faceup,
and one of those cards forces me to take another hidden
card, do I have to turn that card faceup as well?
A: No. When you are instructed to turn each of your
hidden cards faceup, only the hidden cards that are
currently in front of you at that time are turned faceup;
any hidden cards you are forced to take as part of
that effect, such as from Evil Crow (AtS 122), remain
facedown in front of you.
-----
Q: During the Setup for stage 1A of The
Necromancer’s Tower (Core 123), should each
objective have one encounter card attached to it, or
two?
A: One. When you reveal a Guarded objective, you
must reveal the top card of the encounter deck and
attach it to that objective, guarding it. The additional
instruction on The Necromancer’s Tower to “... attach
1 encounter to each objective card” is there as a
reminder, so that players know to attach 1 encounter
card to each Guarded objective.
-----
Q: When an encounter card effects instructs me to
search the encounter deck and discard pile for an
enemy, reveal it, and add it to the staging area during
a quest to which Thalin (CORE 6) is committed, does
he still deal 1 damage to an enemy chosen from the
discard pile?
A: Yes. Enemies revealed from the encounter deck
and discard pile by quest card and encounter card
effects are still considered to have been revealed by the
encounter deck.
-----
Q: If I have Light of Valinor (D 107) attached to a
hero I control, can that hero commit to the quest while
exhausted?
A: No. Characters must be ready and able to exhaust
in order to quest, attack, or defend. Card effects that
allow a character to perform any of those actions
without exhausting do not allow exhausted characters
to perform those actions.
-----
Q: When an enemy with the text “cannot leave play”
has damage equal to or in excess of its hit points, what
happens?
A: Nothing. The enemy cannot leave play, and therefore
will continue to function as an enemy in play.
-----
Q: When I reveal the last card of the encounter deck, do
I immediately reset the quest deck before resolving the
staging of the revealed card?
A: No. Resolve the staging of the revealed card,
including any ‘When Revealed’ effects, before resetting
the quest deck, if able. If you are unable to completely
resolve the staging of the card because it instructs you
to interact with the encounter deck in some manner,
then reset the quest deck and finish resolving the effect.
-----
Q: If I am engaged with The Lord of the Dead (SoE 5)
when I play Saruman (VoI 3), do I still have to raise
each player’s threat for his Doomed 3?
A: No. The moment Saruman enters play under your
control, the passive effect on The Lord of the Dead
causes you to treat his text box as blank, before the
Doomed keyword can trigger.
-----
Q: If I use the Response effect on Saruman (VoI 3) to
treat an encounter card guarding an objective as out of
play, does that mean I can claim that objective because
it is free of encounters?
A: No. When a card is considered to be out of play,
each card attached to it is also considered to be out of
play. Because objectives with the Guarded keyword are
attached to the enemy or location that is guarding it, if
that enemy or location is considered to be out of play,
the guarded objective is too.
15
-----
Q: How many keywords does The Balrog (RD 44)
have?
A: One. Indestructible is the only keyword on The
Balrog.
-----
Q: Does the Guarded keyword trigger when the
encounter card it’s on is “added” to the staging area
(and not “revealed”)?
A: No. In order for the Guarded keyword to trigger, the
encounter card it appears on must be “revealed” from
the encounter deck.
-----
Q: If Mines of Moria (TRD 52) is in the staging area
and there is an active location, where is progress placed
first?
A: Progress must be placed on the Mines of Moria in
the staging area before it can be placed on the active
location because the game text on Mines of Moria
overrides the game rules via the Golden Rule.
-----
Q: If there is an active location with a Response effect
that triggers when it is explored and the players make
enough progress to explore the location and advance
to the next stage, when do the players resolve the
location’s Response effect?
A: The players should advance to the next stage
immediately and resolve any ‘when revealed’ effects on
the next stage, then resolve the Response effect on the
active location.
-----
Q: If I attach Sword-thain (AA 149) to a unique Lore
ally (making that ally a hero), does the attached hero
have the printed Lore icon?
A: Yes. If an ally with a printed sphere icon becomes a
hero, that hero is also considered to have that printed
sphere icon.
-----
Q: If I use Sneak Attack (CORE 23) to put a unique
ally into play during the planning phase and attach
Sword-thain (AA 149) to that ally, is that ally returned
to my hand at the end of the phase?
A: No. The ally that entered play with Sneak Attack is
no longer an ally because it has Sword-thain attached,
and Sneak Attack’s delayed effect no longer affects it.
-----
Q: Can a character with the Ranged keyword join an
attack against an enemy in the staging area?
A: No. The Ranged keyword only gives characters with
that keyword the ability to attack enemies engaged with
another player.
-----
Q: If a side quest is the “current” quest, is the text on
the main quest still active?
A: Yes. The text on each quest card in play is active.
-----
Q: If an encounter card effect with the Peril keyword
causes an enemy to make an attack against me, can my
friend use his character with the Sentinel keyword to
defend the attack?
A: Yes. Once the enemy attack is initiated, it should
follow each step of ‘resolving enemy attacks,’ and the
action windows inbetween each step are open to all
players.
-----
Q: Can a player’s threat be reduced below 0?
A: No. The threat dial does not allow negative values.
-----
Q: Can I use Proud Hunters (H 32) to add resources to
Beorn’s (OHaUH 1) resource pool even though he is
immune to player card effects?
A: Yes. A hero’s resource pool is a separate game
element from the hero card, so cards that target Beorn’s
resource pool (and not Beorn) are not affected by his
immunity to player card effects.
-----
Q: Can I play Elevenses (DC 36) after resolving a quest
since characters are considered to be committed to the
quest until the end of the quest phase?
A: No. Elevenses says “Play only after the staging
step” which means it is only playable immediately after
the staging step ends.
-----
Q: Are there any player cards that allow me to attack an
enemy in the staging area if it is immune to player card
effects?
A: No. None.